
h1. Default Mail Account Configuration



h1. Overview

exo Mail is an email client application which is part of the eXo Collaboration Suite product. It is written with eXo's [Portal:WebUI] framework as a portlet. It leverage [JCR|JCR:] as its data storage. As usual, main components are Exo Container components and can be configured through XML. System integration and extension points are  defined as [Component Plugins| Products Tech Overview:Components+Registry#CS].


h1. Configuration

You should have 'cs-plugins-configuration.xml' in exo.cs.web.portal project for configuration. Normally, to create default account for each user when an user works with eXo portal, user uses organization portlet to create new user, so the eXo Mail service will create     a default account for the created user. To do that, you have to configure <code>cs-plugins-configuration.xml</code> file:

{code:xml}
	<component-plugin>
     	    <name>mail.new.user.event.listener</name>
     	    <set-method>addListenerPlugin</set-method>
     	    <type>org.exoplatform.mail.service.impl.NewUserListener</type>
     	    <description>description</description>
   	</component-plugin>
{code}	
	Some default information for default account must be declared in this code snippet.
	
{code:xml}
   <component-plugin>
	    <name>mail.new.user.event.listener</name>
	    <set-method>addListenerPlugin</set-method>
	    <type>org.exoplatform.mail.service.impl.NewUserListener</type>
	    <description>description</description>
	    <init-params>
		  <value-param>
			<name>protocol</name>
			<value>imap</value>
		  </value-param>
		  <value-param>
			<name>ssl</name>
			<value>false</value>
		  </value-param>
		  <value-param>
			<name>incomingServer</name>
			<value>in</value>
		  </value-param>
		  <value-param>
			<name>incomingPort</name>
			<value>143</value>
		  </value-param>
		  <value-param>
			<name>incomingFolder</name>
			<value>Inbox</value>
		  </value-param>
		  <value-param>
			<name>outgoingServer</name>
			<value>out</value>
		  </value-param>
		  <value-param>
			<name>outgoingPort</name>
			<value>25</value>
		  </value-param>
	    </init-params>
	  </component-plugin>
{code}
	
Since version 1.1 we do not create default account .


