eXo Collaboration consists of three gadgets: eventslist, taskslist and messageslist. They are packaged in the _csResources.war_ file.

h1. Eventslist {anchor:id=CSref.Gadgets.Evenslist}

h2. Description  {anchor:id=CSref.Gadgets.Eventlist.Description}
Eventslist lists the maximum number of upcoming events, that is configurable by users. For example, they can set the preference list to 5 or 10 events.

See preferences of this gadget in the following sample code:

{code:xml}
<UserPref name="url" display_name="__MSG_baseurl__" datatype="string" value="/calendar" required="true" />
<UserPref name="subscribeurl" display_name="__MSG_subscribeurl__" datatype="string" value="/portal/rest/private/cs/calendar/upcoming"
  required="true" />
<UserPref name="limit" display_name="__MSG_limit__" default_value="10" datatype="string" />
<UserPref name="timeformat" display_name="__MSG_format__" default_value="AM/PM" datatype="enum" />
{code}

Details:
|| Preferences || Description ||
| *url* | Link to the Calendar portlet. |
| *Subscribeurl* | Link to the upcoming events. |
| *limit* | The maximum number of upcoming events. |
| *timeformat* | The time format for upcoming events. |

For more details on the preferences of gadgets, see [here.|http://code.google.com/apis/gadgets/docs/basic.html#Userprefs]

h2. Links to used REST services {anchor:id=CSref.Gadgets.Eventslist.LinksToUsedRESTServices}

It uses the _upcomingEvent_ service in the following package:
_org.exoplatform.webservice.cs.calendar.CalendarWebservice.java_.


h1. Taskslist {anchor:id=CSref.Gadgets.Taskslist}
Taskslist lists the maximum number of upcoming tasks that is configurable by users. For example, they can set the preference list to 5 or 10 tasks.

h2. Description {anchor:id=CSref.Gadgets.Taskslist.Description}
See the preferences of this gadget in the following sample code:

{code:xml}
<UserPref name="setting" default_value="/calendar:/portal/rest/private/cs/calendar/upcoming:10:AM/PM:Default" datatype="hidden" />
{code}

Accordingly, _setting_ collects all the configuration of upcoming tasks and add some more functions to help developers change the configuration of the default skin.

h2. Links to used REST services  {anchor:id=CSref.Gadgets.Taskslist.LinksToUsedRESTServices}
It uses upcomingEvent service in the following package:
_org.exoplatform.webservice.cs.calendar.CalendarWebservice.java_.

h1. Messageslist {anchor:id=CSref.Gadgets.Messageslist}
It lists the maximum number of unread messages, that is configurable by users.

h2. Description {anchor:id=CSref.Gadgets.Messageslist.Description}

See the prefereces of this gadget in the following sample code:

{code:xml}
<UserPref name="url" display_name="__MSG_baseurl__" datatype="hidden" value="/mail" required="true" />
<UserPref name="subscribeurl" display_name="__MSG_subscribeurl__" datatype="hidden" value="/portal/rest/private/cs/mail/unreadMail"
  required="true" />
<UserPref name="limit" display_name="__MSG_limit__" default_value="5" datatype="hidden" />
<UserPref name="account" display_name="__MSG_account__" default_value="" datatype="hidden" />
<UserPref name="folder" display_name="__MSG_folder__" default_value="" datatype="hidden" />
<UserPref name="tag" display_name="__MSG_tag__" default_value="" datatype="hidden" />
{code}

Details:
|| Preferences || Description ||
| *Url* | The URL of the Mail Application. |
| *Subscribeurl* | The link to upcoming messages.  |
| *Limit* | The number of displayed unread messages that is set by users. |
| *Account* | The mail account in the Mail application. |
| *Folder* | The folder which consists of unread messages. |
| *Tag* | The tags in all unread messages. |

h2. Links to used REST services {anchor:id=CSref.Gadgets.LinksToUsedRESTServices}

It uses the unreadMail service in the following package:
_org.exoplatform.webservice.cs.mail.MailWebservice.java_.
